---
layout: post
date: 2016-02-05
title: Rails Magic
draft: false
---

Rails is magic. There. I said it. And I’m learning how to use it. I had a bit of
a breakthrough this week. As I may have mentioned previously, Rails is smart. It
_knows_ stuff that it really seems to have no right to know. But it’s also
surprisingly intuitive. If you know what you want to do, all you have to do is
type it out. In semi-plain English. Once you work out the normal syntax quirks
(underscores and colons and the like), everything falls into place. Want to put
a link somewhere? _link_to_. Where should the link go? The new user page? Easy
enough. _link_to “New User”, new_user_path_. Done. Need to create a form to
create a new user? _form_for @user_. Honestly, it’s that easy.

That’s not to say that Rails is “easy” to learn, because it’s totally not. But
I’m amazed that with only two weeks of really using the framework, I’ve got two
functional web apps online.
[Photogur](https://immense-peak-73305.herokuapp.com/) is a completely un-styled
clone of Imgur. It allows you to add photos by URL to a database, view the
photos others have added (currently, mostly filler images of Bill Murray and
Nicholas Cage, added by yours truly), and maybe in the future, leave comments on
the photos. The next (somewhat more impressive, I might add) is called
[Rainforest](http://damp-cliffs-11542.herokuapp.com/), a simple online “shop.”
Users can log in, look at products posted by other users, post, edit, look at,
and delete their own products (these four actions, Create Read Update Delete,
known colloquially as CRUD), look at (but not edit or delete) products posted by
others users, and view their own user profile. Go ahead and create a profile on
Rainforest and add some stuff, or leave comments on the stuff I put there as
tests. (No, I’m not keeping track of any information, it doesn’t need a real
email address or anything, I don’t send you anything.) (Also don’t mind the
weird page URLs. I know damp-cliffs and immense-peak are bizarre. They’re
automatically generated by [Heroku](http://www.heroku.com).)

Our current project, codenamed SeatYourself (a clone of OpenTable), is an
interesting one. It’s the first project where we’re required to work in groups
of 3 or 4. It’s tricky to get all the collaboration coordinated, but made much
easier through [git](http://git-scm.com), which I’ve mentioned before. Git
tracks the changes each person makes to the documents, and painlessly merges
them all into the master “branch” of the repository. Like a Microsoft Office
“Track Changes” feature, but it’s actually user-friendly and powerful, not kinda
archaic and computer-freezing. It’s powerful, though a bit quirky. It’s also an
industry standard. As in, good-luck-getting-a-job-if-you-can’t-use-it standard,
so it’s an important thing to master. (Or achieve a working knowledge of.
Because it’s crazy complicated if you wanna know everything about it.) This kind
of group work is pretty normal in the software development world, so it’s good
to get a lot of practice with it before they set us budding developers loose on
the wild world of job-hunting.

Just a few other things of note this week. We had a session on Tuesday about how
to network, which was interesting. I’ve never networked before, but apparently
it’s important. You may have noticed that I’ve been writing a blog,
[tweeting](http://twitter.com/mbowman2) from time-to-time, and updating my
[LinkedIn](https://ca.linkedin.com/in/mike-bowman-81936160) profile, which are
all part of this “networking.” In person though, as far as I can tell, it means
“do exactly what I didn’t do at the event on Tuesday night.” _Don’t_ sit with
your friends. _Don’t_ be staring at your phone the whole time. _Do_ go talk to
people you’ve never met before. Yeah, I didn’t do so great at the whole
networking thing. But there’ll be plenty of opportunities, I’m sure. The event
itself was interesting though. It was a series of short talks (10–15 minutes)
given by people in the tech community (coincidentally, all 4 of the speakers
were connected to Bitmaker in some way or another. Two were from current
instructors in the program, and two were from recent graduates) about current
topic in the tech world, specifically as they relate to Ruby.

Then Wednesday at lunch we had a guy come and talk to us (the third speaker from
the Tuesday night event) about his process of getting through a rather rigorous
interview process before finally getting hired at [500px](http://500px.com), a
photo-sharing community for serious photographers. He did the program at
Bitmaker in the summer, and was hired about two months afterwards. But he seems
like he’s landed himself a pretty sweet gig, especially for a Junior Developer
with essentially the same background as me (BA in Philosophy! All is not lost!)
He had lots of tips for us, and it’s alway cool to hear more success stories,
especially since he and I have similar backgrounds.

Anyways, you’ve probably got better things to do on a Friday evening than read
any more of a blog post (and I’ve got better things to do than write one. Like
recover from the giant cheese-filled quesadilla I ate for lunch), so I’ll end
things there. As always, thanks to the brave souls who click the link, and even
more thanks to the braver souls who at least scroll to the bottom so that medium
tells me you’ve read it. On to the weekend!
